So how does Angular connect to a database or how do you connect Angular to a database in your application?
Well of course, it is a use case that you will often have, in your Angular app, you generate data like
posts or recipes or whatever you have in your application and you want to store that data in a database
and also fetch it from there when your app restarts, when a user revisits your page and so on and it
doesn't matter which kind of database we're talking about,
if that's an SQL or noSQL database, doesn't really matter.
The thing is you don't connect Angular to a database directly,
that means you don't enter your database credentials into your Angular app or anything like that,
this would be highly insecure because everyone can read your Angular code since it's a front-end Javascript
application, everyone can inspect the code there and that is fine
but that also means you must not store credentials in there for example and you will learn how you can
still authenticate users and so on later in the authentication section but you definitely don't want to
store database credentials.
For more information on how secure your Javascript code is, you can have a look at an article in a video
I attached to this video here.
So if we don't connect directly to a database, what else can we do then
because we certainly don't want to have our standalone independent unconnected Angular app?
Well you send HTTP requests and you get HTTP responses to and from a server. A server in the end
is defined as an API here,
that means it is for example a REST API or a GraphQL API
you are communicating with and in this course, we'll use a REST API which is the most common form of API
you work with. Now such an API in the end is almost like a normal website
but when you visit its URLs, you're not getting back HTML but you're getting back data,
mostly the JSON format and if you want to learn more about the REST APIs in general, you'll also find
some helpful resources related to that
attached to this video and I have a whole course, my NodeJS course where I also teach you how to create
such API apps because you don't use Angular for the creation of these APIs, you use server-side languages
like NodeJS or PHP instead but you can communicate with these APIs with Angular and on that server,
you then can have code that does interact with a database to store and fetch data and of course there
are more reasons for communicating with a server than for storing or fetching data.
It's not just about database access, you could be uploading files or you could be sending some analytics
to a back-end or any other reason for why you might need to talk to some back-end server.
Now in this module, we will not write such a back-end from scratch since this is way beyond the scope
of the course and totally not Angular job but I will show you how to use a free dummy back-end which
could of course be replaced by any real back-end you have to send requests, to use responses and so
on.